Arrays in PHP

An ordered map in PHP is called an array (contains value on the basis of key).
It's a sort of variable that can hold several values of the same type.


PHP Array's Benefits
Less Code: We don't need to define several variables, thus we can write less code.
Simple to traverse: We can traverse all the elements of an array with a single loop.
Sorting: The items of an array can be sorted.


Array Types in PHP

In PHP, there are three types of arrays.

I. Indexed Array
II. Multidimensional Array 
III. Associative Array

I. Indexed Array in PHP

The PHP index is represented by a number that begins with 0.
In the PHP array, we can store numbers, strings, and objects.
By default, all PHP array elements are given an index number.

II. Associative Array in PHP

In PHP, you can associate a name/label with each array element.
Because each element is represented by a label rather than an incremented number, you can readily recall it.

III. Multidimensional Array in PHP

The array of arrays in PHP is also known as a multidimensional array.
It enables the storage of tabular data in an array.
PHP multidimensional arrays can be expressed as a matrix, with row * column as the rows and columns as the columns.

Sorting Array

An array's elements can be sorted alphabetically or numerically, in ascending or descending order.

sort() - sort arrays in ascending order
rsort() is a function that sorts arrays in ascending order.
asort() is a function that sorts associative arrays in ascending order based on their value.
ksort() is a function that sorts associative arrays in ascending order based on the key.
arsort() is a function that sorts associative arrays in descending order based on their value.
krsort() is a function that sorts associative arrays in descending order based on the key.

Different functions of array

1. in_array(): Checks if a specified value exists in an array
2. range(): Creates an array containing a range of elements
3. array_unique(): Removes duplicate values from an array. It is case-sensitive
4. array_search(): earches an array for a given vale and returns the key
5. array_slice(): Returns selected parts of an array
